doc: add document for fleet (#814)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.6.0/deploy/install/install-with-fleet.md

---
title: Install with Fleet
weight: 10
---

## Prerequisites

> - Your workstation: Install [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/) v2.0 or later.

Reviewer: Suggest the currently supported version v3 instead, because v2 was EOL.

Author: Refined.

- Kubernetes cluster:
  - Ensure that each node fulfills the [installation requirements](../#installation-requirements).

>   - If you are using a Helm version earlier than v3.0, [install Tiller with role-based access control (RBAC)](https://v2.helm.sh/docs/using_helm/#tiller-namespaces-and-rbac).

Reviewer: No need to have a note for helm v2 if we just recommend v3.

Author: Removed.

      releaseName: longhorn
    diff:
      comparePatches:
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: engineimages.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: nodes.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: volumes.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
    ```

1. Create a GitRepo custom resource (CR) that points to your GitOps repository.

    ```bash
    cat > longhorn-gitrepo.yaml << "EOF"
    apiVersion: fleet.cattle.io/v1alpha1
    kind: GitRepo
    metadata:
      name: longhorn
      namespace: fleet-local
    spec:
      repo: https://github.com/your-username/your-gitops-repo.git
      revision: main
      paths:
      - .
    EOF
    ```

1. Apply the GitRepo CR.

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f longhorn-gitrepo.yaml
    ```

1. Verify that the GitRepo CR was created and synced successfully.

    ```bash

>     kubectl -n fleet-local get fleet -w

Reviewer: You didn't mention creating the namespace `fleet-local`. I would suggest just using the `default` namespace, good enough for an example.

Author: This follows [Fleet document](https://fleet.rancher.io/quickstart) and could be what it expects. Should we use `default` instead?

Reviewer: Then, let's just need to add creating the ns beforehand.

Author: Namespace `fleet-local` is automatically created during `fleet` installation when `helm install fleet` is executed.

Reviewer: Then, we are good

---
title: Install with Fleet
weight: 10
---

In this section, you will learn how to install Longhorn with Fleet.

### Prerequisites

- Each node in the Kubernetes cluster where Longhorn will be installed must fulfill [these requirements.](../#installation-requirements)
- Helm v2.0+ must be installed on your workstation.
  - 1. Refer to the official documentation for help installing Helm.
  - 2. If you're using a Helm version prior to version 3.0, you need to [install Tiller in your Kubernetes cluster with role-based access control (RBAC)](https://v2.helm.sh/docs/using_helm/#tiller-namespaces-and-rbac).

> > [This script](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v{{< current-version >}}/scripts/environment_check.sh) can be used to check the Longhorn environment for potential issues.

Author: @jillian-maroket Is the ::: intended? I can still see ::: isn't interpreted in preview.

> > [This script](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v{{< current-version >}}/scripts/environment_check.sh) can be used to check the Longhorn environment for potential issues.

Reviewer 2: @yangchiu Sorry, I used the markup for admonitions in [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions), which is what Harvester uses. Please revert to ">".

### Installing Fleet

1. Install [Fleet](https://fleet.rancher.io/) using Helm. Add the Helm repository and install Fleet:

    ```bash
    helm repo add fleet https://rancher.github.io/fleet-helm-charts/
    helm -n cattle-fleet-system install --create-namespace --wait fleet-crd fleet/fleet-crd
    helm -n cattle-fleet-system install --create-namespace --wait fleet fleet/fleet
    ```

    Wait for Fleet components to be deployed in the cattle-fleet-system namespace.

> ### Installing Longhorn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installing Longhorn
```

> 1. In your Gitops repository, create [fleet.yaml](https://fleet.rancher.io/ref-fleet-yaml) to configure Longhorn installation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your GitOps repository, create a [fleet.yaml](https://fleet.rancher.io/ref-fleet-yaml) file that includes the following:
```

>     Ensure the fleet.yaml file includes the following configuration to install Longhorn in longhorn-system namespace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Parameter for installing Longhorn in the `longhorn-system` namespace
```

Reviewer 2: I used an unordered list to organize the code blocks. There are three list items.

    ```yaml
    defaultNamespace: longhorn-system
    ```

>     Ensure the fleet.yaml file includes the following configuration to [ignore modified CRDs](https://fleet.rancher.io/bundle-diffs):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Parameters for [ignoring modified CRDs](https://fleet.rancher.io/bundle-diffs)
```

    ```yaml
    diff:
      comparePatches:
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: engineimages.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: nodes.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: volumes.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
    ```

>     Finally, ensure the fleet.yaml file includes the following section to specify the version of Longhorn helm chart to be installed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Parameters for specifying the version of the Longhorn Helm chart to be installed
```

    ```yaml
    helm:
      repo: https://charts.longhorn.io
      chart: longhorn
      version: v1.6.0 # Replace with the Longhorn version you'd like to install or upgrade to
      releaseName: longhorn
    ```

>     The complete fleet.yaml file would be like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Example of a complete `fleet.yaml` file:
```

    ```yaml
    defaultNamespace: longhorn-system
    helm:
      repo: https://charts.longhorn.io
      chart: longhorn
      version: 1.6.0
      releaseName: longhorn
    diff:
      comparePatches:
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: engineimages.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: nodes.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
      - apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
        kind: CustomResourceDefinition
        name: volumes.longhorn.io
        operations:
        - {"op": "replace", "path": "/status"}
    ```

> 2. Create GitRepo CR points to your Gitops repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a GitRepo custom resource (CR) that points to your GitOps repository.
```

    ```bash
    cat > longhorn-gitrepo.yaml << "EOF"
    apiVersion: fleet.cattle.io/v1alpha1
    kind: GitRepo
    metadata:
      name: longhorn
      namespace: fleet-local
    spec:
      repo: https://github.com/your-username/your-gitops-repo.git
      revision: main
      paths:
      - .
    EOF
    ```

> 3. Apply the GitRepo CR:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Apply the GitRepo CR.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f longhorn-gitrepo.yaml
    ```

> 4. Check GitRepo Status:
> 
>     Check the status of the GitRepo to ensure it has been created and synced successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Verify that the GitRepo CR was created and synced successfully.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl -n fleet-local get fleet -w
    ```

>     Once it's been synced successfully, Longhorn should be installed successfully, too:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Verify that Longhorn was installed successfully.
```

Reviewer 2: I made this a separate step so users know that there are two verification actions.

    ```bash
    kubectl -n longhorn-system get pod
    ```

>     The result should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Example of a successful Longhorn installation:
```

    csi-snapshotter-588457fcdf-2wd6g                    1/1     Running   0          100s
    csi-provisioner-869bdc4b79-mzrwf                    1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-provisioner-869bdc4b79-klgfm                    1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-resizer-6d8cf5f99f-fd2ck                        1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-provisioner-869bdc4b79-j46rx                    1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-snapshotter-588457fcdf-bvjdt                    1/1     Running   0          100s
    csi-resizer-6d8cf5f99f-68cw7                        1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-attacher-7bf4b7f996-df8v6                       1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-attacher-7bf4b7f996-g9cwc                       1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-attacher-7bf4b7f996-8l9sw                       1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-resizer-6d8cf5f99f-smdjw                        1/1     Running   0          101s
    instance-manager-b34d5db1fe1e2d52bcfb308be3166cfc   1/1     Running   0          114s
    engine-image-ei-df38d2e5-cv6nc                      1/1     Running   0          114s
    ```

> 5. To enable access to the Longhorn UI, you will need to set up an Ingress controller. Authentication to the Longhorn UI is not enabled by default. For information on creating an NGINX Ingress controller with basic authentication, refer to [this section.](../../accessing-the-ui/longhorn-ingress)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Create an NGINX Ingress controller with basic authentication](../../accessing-the-ui/longhorn-ingress) to access the Longhorn UI. Authentication to the Longhorn UI is not enabled by default.
```

> 6. Access the Longhorn UI using [these steps.](../../accessing-the-ui)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Access the Longhorn UI](../../accessing-the-ui).
```
